Slay Rules

Introduction

The object of Slay is to capture the whole of the island by killing all of your enemies' people and capturing their land. To start a game click on one of the tree icons. Each icon represents a different island that you can play on.


Playing the Game

The land that you own is divided into territories of adjoining hexagons. Each territory of two or more hexagons in size will have its own capital, shown by a house. The money that a territory has is kept in the capital.

At the beginning of each of your turns a waving flag will appear over the capitals of any territories which have enough money to buy new peasants or castles. Click on the capital and its information will be shown in the box to the right of the screen. If there is either a peasant or a castle shown in this box you can then click on one of them and drag it onto an empty hexagon in the capital's territory. Once you have bought a piece you can never sell it back.

If your men have neither captured an enemy hexagon nor chopped down a tree during this turn they will jump up and down to show that they can still be moved. You can pick up a jumping man and drag him as many times as you want within his own territory, but he can make only one attack per turn onto an enemy hexagon adjoining his territory or chop down one tree in his own territory. He may not attack enemy hexagons if the hexagon is too well defended by enemy pieces. If you want to attack a hexagon which is well defended you can combine two of your men to produce a single, stronger man.

Jumping men and capitals with enough money to buy new things are highlighted in the Map window by flashing red dots.


Money

At the beginning of every turn each of your territories earns 1 credit for each hexagon which is in it that does not have a tree on it. However, the territory has to pay wages to the men that are in it. The costs for different men are (the more expensive men are created by combining the cheaper ones):

Peasant 2
Spearman 6
Knight 18
Baron 54

Castles cost nothing to maintain.

You can use the territory's money to buy new men or castels. A new peasant costs 10 and a castle costs 15.

If a territory does not have enough money to pay its people it will go bankrupt and all its men will die, turning into gravestones. Next turn, a tree will grow on the grave.

You can see the financial state of one of your territories by clicking on its capital.


Trees

Trees grow on your hexagons at the beginning of your turn. You do not collect any money from hexagons which have trees on them. The two types of trees are:

Pine trees
Grow on empty hexagons which are surrounded by two or more pine trees.

Palm trees
Grow on hexagons on the coast which are next to another palm tree.


Attacking

Each of your men can chop down a tree in their own territory or they can make one attack on any hexagon adjoining the territory that they are in, provided that it is not too well defended by an enemy man.

Men, capitals and castles defend the hexagon that they are standing on and all the hexagons immediately surrounding them in their same territory. Castles defend at the strength of a spearman, capitals with the strength of a peasant. If a capital is destroyed a new one will be formed but all of its money will be lost.

To make a successful attack, the attacking piece must be stronger than the enemy's defence (to make stronger men you must combine two of your existing men). For example:

A peasant could not take a hexagon which has an enemy peasant on it nor any of the hexagons that the enemy peasant is defending.

A spearman could kill the peasant or take any of the hexagons surrounding the peasant as spearmen are stronger than peasants.

It takes at least a knight to capture an enemy castle, or a hexagon defended by it.

If you capture a hexagon which links two of your territories together, the capital of the smaller territory will disappear and its money will be transferred to the larger territory's capital.


Combining Men

You can create stronger men by placing one of your men on top of another one in the same territory. The strength of the new man that you create will be the sum of the strengths of the two individual men.

The different men are:

Peasant strength 1
Spearman strength 2
Knight strength 3
Baron strength 4

For example:

If you put a peasant (strength 1) onto another of your peasants (strength 1) you will produce a spearman (strength 2):

If you put a peasant (strength 1) onto one of your spearman (strength 2) you will produce a knight (strength 3).

If you put a spearman (strength 2) onto another spearman (strength 2) you will produce a Baron (strength 4).

Be careful because stronger men cost more money to maintain and if your territory goes bankrupt then all its men will die.


Territory Information

If you click on one of your territories its finances will be displayed in a box to the right of the screen below the map. This box tells you how much the territory gained or lost this turn and how much money the territory has left.